instructions/part-1-lesson-4.md, before:

# Part 1 - Lesson 4: Lifecycle enforcement and progression
- Time: ~30 min

## Objective
- Understand the importance of multiple environments
- Understand the importance of environment progression and how Octopus enforces it

## Tasks
- Configure test and production environments
- Deploy to test and production environments

## Achievement
- See the deployed applications running in test and production environments

# Lesson

## Verify test and production apps running and empty

- Browse to your `Test` environment web site: [student-app-url-test]
- Verify that it is running the Azure default web site

## Configure test and production environments

- Navigate to the `Infrastructure` > `Environments` area. (go [directly there](https://octopus-training.octopus.app/app#/[space-id]/infrastructure/environments))

![](assets/1-4/infra-environments.png)

- Repeat the steps in the `Create environments` task from [Lesson 2](part-1-lesson-2.md) to create environments with deployment targets for `Test` and `Production` instead of `Development`.

*Hint: start with the `Add Environment` button.*

Use these variations in place of those in the Lesson 2 instructions:

- In `Add environment` dialog box, click the `Test` or `Production`
- In `Create Azure Web App` form:

| Entry | Test | Production | (note) |
|-|-|-|-|
| Display Name | `Azure Test Service` | `Azure Prod Service` | |
| Environments | `Test` | `Production` | |
| Target Roles | - | - | select existing rule: `workshop-app-service` |
| Azure Web App | your name & `-test` | your name & `-prod` | |

- Navigate to `Infrastructure` > `Overview` ([go directly there](https://octopus-training.octopus.app/app#/[space-id]/infrastructure/overview))
- Verify that you now have the following updates:
  - Environments (3)
    - Development 1
    - Test 1
    - Production 1
  - Deployment Targets (3)
    - Azure Web App 3
  - Target Status (3)
    - Healthy 3

## Observe additional environments

- Navigate to the workshop application project overview
  - Click `Projects` then `Workshop Application` or 
  - [Go directly there](https://octopus-training.octopus.app/app#/[space-id]/projects/workshop-application/deployments)
- Notice that you now have the `Test` and `Production` environments
- Notice there's a `Deploy...` button under `Test`, but not under `Production` for the release

## Deploy to test

- Click the `Deploy...` button under `Test`

On the next screen (`Deploy release`)
- Under `Preview and customize` click the row with `Test` in it
- Under `Deployment steps preview`, observe that it shows the name of the target this will deploy to: `Azure Test Service`
- Click the `Deploy` button

Once the deployment to `Test` is complete
- Navigate to your test web site: [student-app-url-test]
- Verify it is now the workshop sample application

## Deploy to production

- Browse to your `Production` environment web site: [student-app-url-prod]
- Verify that it is still running the Azure default web site

In the Octopus portal
- Return to the [`Projects` > `Workshop Application` overview page](https://octopus-training.octopus.app/app#/[space-id]/projects/workshop-application/deployments)
- Notice we now have a `Deploy...` button under `Production`
- Click the `Deploy...` button
- Observe the `Azure Prod Service` target under the `Preview and customize` section
- Click `Deploy` to complete the `Production` environment deployment

Verify the deployment:
- Refresh your `Production` environment web site: [student-app-url-prod]
- Verify that it is now running the workshop sample application

**Congratulations! You've completed your first deployment through to Production!**

# Lesson Complete
On to the next lesson: [Package and Release Versions](part-1-lesson-5.md)

Commit message:

refinements for the slug usage

instructions/part-1-lesson-4.md, after:

# Part 1 - Lesson 4: Lifecycle enforcement and progression
- Time: ~30 min

## Objective
- Understand the importance of multiple environments
- Understand the importance of environment progression and how Octopus enforces it

## Tasks
- Configure test and production environments
- Deploy to test and production environments

## Achievement
- See the deployed applications running in test and production environments

# Lesson

## Verify test and production apps running and empty

- Browse to your `Test` environment web site: [student-app-url-test]
- Verify that it is running the Azure default web site

## Configure test and production environments

- Navigate to the `Infrastructure` > `Environments` area. (go [directly there](https://octopus-training.octopus.app/app#/[space-id]/infrastructure/environments))

![](assets/1-4/infra-environments.png)

- Repeat the steps in the [`Create environments` task from Lesson 2](part-1-lesson-2.md#create-environments) to create environments with deployment targets for `Test` and `Production` instead of `Development`.

*Hint: start with the `Add Environment` button.*

Use these variations in place of those in the Lesson 2 instructions:

- In the `Add environment` dialog box, click the `Test` or `Production` helper links
- In the `Create Azure Web App` screen:

| Entry | Test | Production | (note) |
|-|-|-|-|
| Display Name | `Azure Test Service` | `Azure Prod Service` | |
| Environments | `Test` | `Production` | |
| Target Roles | - | - | select existing role: `workshop-app-service` |
| Azure Web App | `[student-slug]-test` | `[student-slug]-prod` | |

Verify your configuration:
- Navigate to `Infrastructure` > `Overview` ([go directly there](https://octopus-training.octopus.app/app#/[space-id]/infrastructure/overview))
- Verify that you now have the following updates:
  - Environments (3)
    - Development 1
    - Test 1
    - Production 1
  - Deployment Targets (3)
    - Azure Web App 3
  - Target Status (3)
    - Healthy 3

## Observe additional environments

- Navigate to the workshop application project overview
  - Click `Projects` then `Workshop Application` or 
  - [Go directly there](https://octopus-training.octopus.app/app#/[space-id]/projects/workshop-application/deployments)
- Notice that you now have the `Test` and `Production` environments
- Notice there's a `Deploy...` button under `Test`, but not under `Production` for the release

## Deploy to test

- Click the `Deploy...` button under `Test`

On the next screen (`Deploy release`)
- Under `Preview and customize` click the row with `Test` in it
- Under `Deployment steps preview`, observe that it shows the name of the target this will deploy to: `Azure Test Service`
- Click the `Deploy` button

Once the deployment to `Test` is complete
- Navigate to your test web site: [student-app-url-test]
- Verify it is now the workshop sample application

## Deploy to production

- Browse to your `Production` environment web site: [student-app-url-prod]
- Verify that it is still running the Azure default web site

In the Octopus portal
- Return to the [`Projects` > `Workshop Application` overview page](https://octopus-training.octopus.app/app#/[space-id]/projects/workshop-application/deployments)
- Notice we now have a `Deploy...` button under `Production`
- Click the `Deploy...` button
- Observe the `Azure Prod Service` target under the `Preview and customize` section
- Click `Deploy` to complete the `Production` environment deployment

Verify the deployment:
- Refresh your `Production` environment web site: [student-app-url-prod]
- Verify that it is now running the workshop sample application

**Congratulations! You've completed your first deployment through to Production!**

# Lesson Complete
On to the next lesson: [Package and Release Versions](part-1-lesson-5.md)
