instructions/part-1-lesson-1.md, before:

# Part 1 - Lesson 1: Application build and artifacts
- Time: ~30 - 45 min

[Presentation Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1RE1cpKfioSquK9h-HH6jxqrbRpw4WQff4TxOJTCD2ww/edit#slide=id.g1140cf5d16e_0_1)

## Objectives
- Understand a basic example of where an application comes from
- Understand what kind of artifact results from an application build
- Understand where that artifact goes

## Tasks
- Run a predefined application build in GitHub actions
- Verify the package is in your Octopus Deploy artifact feed

## Achievement
- The application package is visible in your Octopus package library

# Exercise

## Run application build workflow

### Navigate to the GitHub Action workflow

In the GitHub repository top menu

- Click on the `Actions` tab (open in a new browser tab so you don't loose your instructions)

![](assets/1-1/GitHub-actions.png)

- Click on `Build Application`

![](assets/1-1/build-app-workflow-item.png)

(Or visit the workflow directly: https://github.com/OctopusDeploy/training-workshop/actions/workflows/build-application.yml)

From the `Build Application` workflow view

- Click `Run workflow`. A small dialog will open.

![](assets/1-1/run-workflow-dialog.png)

- ***IMPORTANT!***: Look for and select your branch name from the `Use workflow from` dropdown: `student/[student-slug]`

![](assets/1-1/build-from-student-branch.png)

Once your student branch is selected

- Click `Run workflow`

![](assets/1-1/run-workflow.png)

After a short time, you should see a new workflow run show up in the run list with your name listed.
```
Manually run by {your name}
```

![](assets/1-1/workflow-started.png)

- Click on the `Build Application` title for the entry with your name

- Click on the block labeled `build`

![](assets/1-1/workflow-build-job-block.png)

You should now see the activity log of the running application build.

![](assets/1-1/workflow-running-log.png)

Once everything is finished running, the build should indicate that it's completed and good.

![](assets/1-1/good-build.png)

## Verify the artifact in your package feed

- Visit your Octopus Space package repository: https://octopus-training.octopus.app/app#/[space-id]/library

From your Space, you'll find this under `Library` > `Packages`.

![](assets/1-1/od-library-packages.png)

- Verify that you have a package entry with a `Highest version` that has a number with this pattern:
```
{year}.{month}.{day}.{workflow run number}
```
![](assets/1-1/package-in-feed.png)

# Lesson Completed!

On to the next lesson: [Infrastructure and Environments](part-1-lesson-2.md)

Commit message:

Add showing empty feed first

instructions/part-1-lesson-1.md, after:

# Part 1 - Lesson 1: Application build and artifacts
- Time: ~30 - 45 min

[Presentation Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1RE1cpKfioSquK9h-HH6jxqrbRpw4WQff4TxOJTCD2ww/edit#slide=id.g1140cf5d16e_0_1)

## Objectives
- Understand a basic example of where an application comes from
- Understand what kind of artifact results from an application build
- Understand where that artifact goes

## Tasks
- Show empty artifact feed
- Run a predefined application build in GitHub actions
- Verify the package is in your Octopus Deploy artifact feed

## Achievement
- The application package is visible in your Octopus package library

# Exercise

## Show empty artifact feed

- Visit your Octopus Space package repository: https://octopus-training.octopus.app/app#/[space-id]/library

From your Space, you'll find this under `Library` > `Packages`.

![](assets/1-1/od-library-packages.png)

- Note that your `Built-in Package Repository` currently contains no packages.

## Run application build workflow

### Navigate to the GitHub Action workflow

From this instructions page, go to the top to find the GitHub repository top menu

- Click on the `Actions` tab (open in a new browser tab so you don't loose your instructions)

![](assets/1-1/GitHub-actions.png)

- Click on `Build Application`

![](assets/1-1/build-app-workflow-item.png)

(Or visit the workflow directly: https://github.com/OctopusDeploy/training-workshop/actions/workflows/build-application.yml)

From the `Build Application` workflow view

- Click `Run workflow`. A small dialog will open.

![](assets/1-1/run-workflow-dialog.png)

- ***IMPORTANT!***: Look for and select your branch name from the `Use workflow from` dropdown: `student/[student-slug]`

![](assets/1-1/build-from-student-branch.png)

Once your student branch is selected

- Click `Run workflow`

![](assets/1-1/run-workflow.png)

After a short time, you should see a new workflow run show up in the run list with your name listed.
```
Manually run by {your name}
```

![](assets/1-1/workflow-started.png)

- Click on the `Build Application` title for the entry with your name

- Click on the block labeled `build`

![](assets/1-1/workflow-build-job-block.png)

You should now see the activity log of the running application build.

![](assets/1-1/workflow-running-log.png)

Once everything is finished running, the build should indicate that it's completed and good.

![](assets/1-1/good-build.png)

## Verify the artifact in your package feed

- Return to your Octopus Space package repository: https://octopus-training.octopus.app/app#/[space-id]/library

- Verify that you have a package entry called `workshop-app` with a `Highest version` that has a number with this pattern:
```
{year}.{month}.{day}.{workflow run number}
```
![](assets/1-1/package-in-feed.png)

# Lesson Completed!

On to the next lesson: [Infrastructure and Environments](part-1-lesson-2.md)
